---
title: "10 Strategic Principles for 2028 and Beyond"
author: "john, patrick, wg"
description: "Strategic principles document outlining Stripe's direction for 2028 and beyond, covering value proposition, product design, identity networks, ecosystem development, risk management, and global expansion"
---

# 10 Strategic Principles for 2028 and Beyond

## What is this doc?

In most areas, teams have strong, localized strategies that they can use to hill climb to excellent outcomes. However, some of our ambitions depend on us working together with a shared mindset and strategic framework for where Stripe is going holistically. To that end, this doc puts forth a set of strategic principles that all of our teams should bear in mind. Many of these are themes that teams would not naturally prioritize in the course of day-to-day hill climbing. If we all internalize these principles and do our work with them in the front of our minds, we’ll deliver a value proposition that far exceeds what any group could create on its own.

We first published a version of this document last year (10 strategic principles for 2027 and beyond). We plan to update it annually based on new learnings, the development and availability of new technologies, changes in the market and macro landscape, and other circumstances shifting around us.

This update is perhaps particularly timely given the two tectonic platform shifts we’ve been talking about all year: the rise of stablecoins and AI. These create massive opportunities for user impact, and we have fleeting opportunities to shape the market and our role within it. We must make fast progress, and we must do so with curiosity, humility, and relentless focus on users. Our strategic principles will help us be “the right kind of stubborn:” persistent with our goals while flexible, iterative, and experimental in how we go about achieving them. This mindset is especially important right now.

Strategic consistency is valuable, and to that end, you’ll see that many of the principles below carry over directly from last year’s. In some cases, principles have been recombined (for example, we’ve collapsed “complete integrations” into “invert our value proposition”), and there are also a small number of net-new principles. Every year, we learn and the world evolves, and some amount of change will thus be a constant. While we celebrate consistency, we must also embrace change.

With that, we present the 10 strategic principles for 2028 and beyond.

## Principle 1: Invert our value proposition

To most of our users and the lay observer, Stripe is a payments services provider ("PSP") enhanced by adjacent commercial infrastructure and applications. We are at the precipice of a fundamental inversion: Stripe is fast becoming a suite of commercial infrastructure, enhanced by the power and quality of our proprietary payments processing capabilities.

This transition is already happening across Stripe. It is intrinsic to our RFA, BaaS, and Connect teams. All of these are differentiated by their deep and native integrations with Stripe Payments, but their foundational value propositions are decoupled from the particular PSP they use. And, in fact, tight coupling to Stripe Payments sometimes erodes their value. At Sessions 2024, we launched Vault and Forward to help users decouple our products from our cards processing capabilities. At Sessions 2025, we took this one step further with Orchestration, a product that centers multi-processing as its core value proposition. 

Most notably, perhaps, this inversion is also happening within Stripe Payments. 85% of direct web go lives are going live on an L3+ surface, and 22% of PiV from users that went live in the trailing 12 months is from L3+ surfaces. While the value of our core payments processing capabilities – our auth rates, our LPM coverage, our integrations with local card networks – will continue to drive enormous user and business impact, the value proposition of Stripe Payments is flowing upwards into the UI and application layer. At this layer, we can provide users with the greatest power and agency to increase revenue, decrease costs, and improve customer experience.

As we graduate from "just the payment processor" to "a suite of coherent commercial infrastructures," users look to us to solve their more complex problems. "Sure you can process payments for me, but please also help me…"

- Understand my customers and acquire new customers
- Reconcile cash and recognize revenue
- Managed the risk inherent to my type of business
- Optimize my pricing
- Create product bundles and increase AOV
- Compile my board deck
- Etc.

To help users solve this broader set of problems, the domain model of a Stripe integration must evolve from transactional to logical. When users integrate Stripe, we want these statements to be true:

1. You model your corporate structure in Stripe (your entities and lines of business);
2. You model your product offerings (single, bundle, add-ons) and pricing structures in Stripe;
3. You model your commercial contract (standalone, recurring, commitments etc.) in Stripe, telling us what was sold (or refunded, disputed, etc.), and to whom you sold it (your customers);
4. You pass us 3P transactional data (that is, what you're processing off of Stripe).

**Transactional domain model** => {financial transactions, balances}
**Logical domain model** => {transactions, balances, products, customers, accounts}

These four statements are the crux of a "complete" integration with Stripe. If they're not true, an integration with Stripe is "incomplete," and this incompleteness diminishes our ability to help a user grow and profit. In particular, some of our existing API shapes (notably Payment Intents) were not designed with a logical domain model in mind. Checkout Sessions and other Billing domain models are more logical, but still aren't fundamentally designed around this paradigm.

### So what?

- We architect all of our products to gracefully interoperate with 3P PSPs. At the same time, we will continue to invest heavily in ensuring that Stripe is the world's best PSP.
- We will rethink our front door integrations (including Payments), evolving them from incomplete to complete.
- We will make it trivially easy for users to import logical data – for example their product catalogs – into Stripe.

### What's coming in 2026?

- Increase the native modeling flexibility and completeness of our core nouns. *Fixed point: Accounts Interfaces; Complete product catalog*
- Increase avenues for users to provide and leverage their own data on the Stripe platform. *Fixed point: Extensibility; Complete product catalog*
- Decouple Stripe's software capabilities from payment processing *Fixed point: Stripe beyond payments; Money movement abstractions*

## Principle 2: Make our products composable, programmable, and extensible

We are fortunate to build for a seemingly infinite set of users in a seemingly infinite problem domain: programmable financial services. There has never been a moment at Stripe that we’ve wondered, “what should we build next?” because the list of fervent asks from our users has always stretched far beyond planning horizons. To accommodate this vastness, we must design our products to be composable, programmable, and extensible.

Today, we find these things to be simultaneously true: our product suite is fast growing (and its growth is accelerating); our Docs and Dashboard surfaces are already vast; users generally do not have a complete model of what Stripe can do for them; and users integrate Stripe’s products serially, in path-dependent ways, and increasingly in tools and surfaces Stripe does not directly own (like through AI dev tools). Strategically, this means it’s critical that we become both more opinionated and more clear for our users about how to integrate Stripe.

Structurally, it means our products must work well together: they must be gracefully composable. This is true both across product areas – Usage Based Billing must interoperate seamlessly with Checkout – and within product areas – we must offer clear graduation paths between high level and low level integrations. 

One salient example of the value of composability is Connect. Today, we find ourselves asking far too often, “but does it work with Connect?” This incantation speaks sometimes to prioritization – maybe we just haven’t taken the time we need to build a new Embedded Component – but nearly always to an architectural flaw: it’s far too hard to make products interoperate with Connect! And when products do interoperate with Connect, users benefit tremendously. Out of the 5k Connect platforms with over 20 connected accounts, 700 are distributing LPM, 588 are distributing Billing, 446 are using Terminal, and 379 are offering instant payouts – all of which generate revenue for these platforms. 

Within a given product area, our higher order products should be compositions of lower level APIs. This generally supports both cross-product interoperability and smoother graduation paths between high order and low order integrations. Checkout has been on this journey over the past two years. The Checkout Sessions API is no longer tightly coupled with the Checkout surface, and we are rebuilding the surface itself on top of Elements. Looking forward, we imagine Checkout becoming a low/no-code editor in the Dashboard to publish customizable hosted checkout pages based on the lower level Elements. A user planning to eject from Checkout to Elements will be able to see the actual code composing Elements in their current Checkout surface.

While no two businesses are precisely alike, they mostly hew to a small family of well-understood business models. We design Stripe – from our abstractions, to our Docs, to our Dashboard – with these models top of mind. But Stripe serves millions of businesses, and we have learned that no finite set of features will perfectly meet the needs of our ever growing and ever more diverse set of customers. In the limit, we want every (supportable) business on the planet to have a Stripe account. We will not meet this goal without allowing our users (“second party,” or “2P”) and third parties (“third party,” or “3P”) to enhance Stripe.

We want users to model their businesses in Stripe, and we mean this quite literally: we want as much of their business logic as possible to live in Stripe. Our mission is to help them grow, and we are more effective at doing this if we deeply understand their businesses.

Our primary mechanism for modeling logic is opinionated, purpose-built abstractions. But there is logic – an infinite variety, in fact – that we can't or choose not to "hard code" into Stripe; we have finite time and finite resources. To accommodate this bespoke logic, we need to make Stripe programmable. For example, we provide some out-of-the-box behavior for Coupons, but it's far from exhaustive. At Sessions 2025, we demoed how Scripts can be used to customize coupon behavior. In a similar vein, we introduced Workflows to chain together logic based on Events, and in 2026 we'll allow users to define custom data models in Stripe.

Finally, we're designing Stripe to be extensible. Stripe, as the core transactional engine for our users, is more powerful if we allow third parties to boost it. Three years ago, we dramatically increased the clip of adding LPMs to Stripe when we enabled third-party payment methods to reverse integrate. And in 2025, Stripe Tax launched global tax filing and increased rates coverage via third parties.

We care not only about the fact of extensibility, but also about the nature of it. When users plug a third party point solution into Stripe, Stripe should become a more complete solution. Data should flow not only from Stripe to the third party, but also the other way. Third party extensibility should enable Stripe to serve as a comprehensive hub for users to understand their businesses.

### So what?

- We deconstruct higher-order products into compositions of underlying platforms and primitives.
- We define a principled framework for cross-product interoperability and coherent graduation path between higher level and lower level integrations.
- We design our products and tools to enable users to conveniently and safely bring their own logic and data to Stripe.

### What's coming in 2026?

- Unbundle Connect into a universal Account Graph platform with core economic primitives, generalized experiences layer, processor-agnostic services (E.g. ledger), and customizable vertical solutions on top tailored for diverse business models and industries. *Fixed point: Accounts Interfaces*
- Continue building and expanding extensibility platform primitives, including Workflows (with advanced features like versioning, looping, scheduling, etc. capabilities), Stripe scripts and Custom objects. *Fixed point: Extensibility*
- Any business can configure, monitor, and optimize their checkout surfaces through the Checkout Studio. *Fixed point: Dashboard*
- Users can incrementally adopt v2 APIs with test mode sandbox *Fixed point: Sandboxes*

## Principle 3: Elevate our canonical identity networks

Identity is at the heart of financial services. Risk is inherent in financial services, and identity is required to underwrite and reduce risk. You can anonymously post on social media or watch videos on YouTube, but your “real world” identity is required to borrow money or process payments (crypto, however, is testing the bounds of this!). Because of this, we believe Stripe will be strongly enhanced by building canonical identity networks – our product flows will be streamlined, our platform will be imbued with trust, both between users and with third parties, and we’ll build new products that are only powerful because of a deep, longitudinal understanding of business and consumer identity.

For consumers, we’re building Link, which is on a stellar trajectory. For businesses, we’re building networked Business Profiles, which we announced at Sessions 2025; here, we’re just off the blocks. Elevating these two networks involves both building them and incorporating them into our products.

Over the past three years, we’ve built a consumer identity network of substantial scale. Link now has over 200 million accounts, with tens of millions of repeat transacting consumers every month. And we’ve found that Link is an extraordinary vector for user impact. In 2025, it saved 1.2M hours (135 years!) at checkout, led to $430M of additional revenue for merchants via conversion uplift, and saved $2.7M of transaction costs via Instant Bank Payments. 

At its core, Link allows consumers to create a persistent identity that can be passported across millions of merchants using Stripe. This streamlines card transactions – Link’s earliest product market fit – but its utility goes far beyond that. Quietly, Link is at the center of several new products we’ve developed in 2025: Stripe Managed Payments, Crypto Onramp, and Agentic Commerce are all built on top of Link. For Stripe Managed Payments and Crypto Onramp, Link creates the first-party relationship we require to act as Merchant of Record. Across all three, it’s a powerful vector for mitigating risk, and for Agentic Commerce, we believe Link will provide consumers with flexibility and discretion in sharing data with agents and merchants. 

In short, having a shared consumer identity primitive is enhancing product development at Stripe in a broad-based way. What we can build with Link is more expansive and more powerful than what we can build without it.

At Sessions 2025, we announced Business Profiles. The thesis here is similar to Link, but on the merchant side: a canonical business identity network will enable us to build more powerful experiences for our users. Every user on Stripe will have a Business Profile (or several) and in the limit, we aspire to provide users with a comprehensive registry of bona fide businesses on the Internet.

For example, collecting and verifying business identity is particularly frictionful, yet KYC processes for a given business are repeated over and over, both on Stripe (e.g., across Connect platforms) and off. So as a baseline opportunity, we’re planning to network KYC: when a business goes through the Stripe verification process, it will create a canonical identity that can be ported not only across Stripe, but across the Internet.

Beyond this:

- We can leverage Profiles to improve B2B transactions: when a business on Stripe pays another business on Stripe, the transaction can be processed as a book transfer — a mere update to Stripe's balances ledger.
- We can streamline Invoicing, auto-completing the information necessary to send an invoice.
- We can provide trust scores for businesses based on transactional data on Stripe.
- We can enable merchants to transact with each other directly within Stripe. (Between 04/01/2024 and 03/31/2025, 2% of total transactions on Stripe, or 61 million transactions, were already between Stripe users, and yet 100% of this happens off Stripe.)
- We can enable merchants to publish and network their product catalogs for agents and customers alike.

Across Link and Business Profiles, we should recognize the value in understanding user identity and leveraging it to improve commerce on Stripe and across the internet.

### So what?

- We create safety for network participants through identity and trust features.
- We providers superior in-network user experiences through streamlined product flows.

### What's coming in 2026?

- Upgrading all of Stripe to use the Accounts v2 interfaces & platform will enable all users to build a first-class user representation that is universal, shareable, and interoperable across the Stripe ecosystem *Fixed point: Accounts Interfaces*
- Link will become an identity network enabling permissioned sharing of personal information, preferences and controls. *Catalyst: Stripe network*
- Stripe profile will provide platform primitives to unlock steelthreads in Agentic Commerce, Network Invoicing, Marketplace, and On-network transfers and payments *Catalyst: Stripe network*

## Principle 4: Empower and embrace an open ecosystem

Since Sessions 2024, we’ve publicly avowed a commitment to cultivating an “open ecosystem.” This has been most directly a reference to payments processing: we are committed to making Stripe’s products gracefully interoperable with third party PSPs (see Principle 1, above).

In the first place, our scale likely demands that we design and operate with a significant degree of openness. Today Stripe represents 2% of global GDP; with solid execution, we should reach or exceed 10% over the decade ahead. It’s hard to imagine a platform of that scale walling itself off from the rest of the economy.

But our commitment goes beyond that. We are extremely enthusiastic about an ecosystem emerging around Stripe. As noted in Principle 2, “Stripe, as the core transactional engine for our users, is more powerful if we allow third parties to boost it.” 

Broadly, we think of four ways an ecosystem can enhance Stripe. The first is basic interoperability: third party systems should generally work well with Stripe. We are not a walled garden. 

Some companies take an insular and protective approach to third parties. For example, Apple locks down many of its services. Along some dimensions, this benefits not only Apple, but also Apple customers, because it allows Apple to assert an exactingly high quality bar. By contrast, B2B companies — for example, AWS, Salesforce, Microsoft — tend to cultivate more open ecosystems. They must interoperate with critical 2P or 3P systems that they won’t immediately (or even foreseeably) replace.

Over the past decade, we’ve learned our way from an Apple-like approach — our products work well with each other, but not with third parties — to a more open approach. Users expect and want Stripe to work well with their existing systems, including third party PSPs.

The second way an ecosystem can enhance Stripe is by extending our product suite. The primary mechanism for this is Stripe Apps. In 2026, we plan to double down on Stripe Apps by being laser focused on apps most demanded by Startups and extending their functionality. To do this, we will proactively onboard the most critical apps for startups, enable one-click onboarding via Stripe surfaces, and ensure apps deeply and usefully extend the Stripe experience in key categories of CRM, Analytics, Communications, Accounting, Checkout, Invoices, and Billing. By driving app adoption, more partners will be excited to build apps for Stripe users, who will, in turn, adopt more apps. A virtuous cycle for our users and for app builders. 

Third, partners can package up and distribute solutions built on top of Stripe. To date, the most common version of this is SaaS Platforms building financial services applications on top of Stripe. In Sep 2025, SaaS Plats drove $57.9B in PIV, 43.5% of Stripe’s total volume. Looking forward, we’re working with Global Systems Integrators (the likes of Accenture, or PwC) to package up and distribute Stripe enterprise solutions suited to particular dimensions of the economy. For example, Accenture has sourced, sold and delivered a repeatable managed payment service, on Stripe, to the UK Government (DEFRA) that includes Connect, Invoicing, Payments and Payouts. 

Finally, a vast ecosystem of Stripe experts can help our users get the most out of Stripe. Formally, this looks like vibrant partnerships with Regional Systems Integrators alongside a very long tail of Stripe Certified Developers. Beyond this, we're excited about perpetuating Stripe expertise and enthusiasm as Stripe users move between or start new companies. Over the past few years, we've increasingly found that users are "bringing Stripe with them" from job to job. In the decade ahead, we hope to see hundreds of thousands of resumés and LinkedIn profiles proudly assert, "Stripe expert," or "Stripe Certified Developer."

Stepping back, an open ecosystem will increase our influence and extend our reach. We are committed to enabling and embracing third parties who are excited to make Stripe better for our users.

### So what?

- We identify strategic areas for 2P and 3P solutions to thrive in, and incorporate them into the Stripe ecosystem via interoperability/extensibility capabilities, Stripe Apps, and providing distribution solutions.

### What's coming in 2026?

- Stripe orchestration supports top 10 payment processors by EOY 2026, and AI-powered optimization tools (e.g. Smart Routing, Smart Retries) deliver measurable improvements in authorization rates and cost savings. *Fixed point: Orchestration; Extensibility*
- Product catalog importing / syncing capabilities, starting with bulk records important with a few key players, making it extremely easy for users to sync and manage their catalog on Stripe by default. *Fixed point: Complete product catalog*

## Principle 5: Be "conspicuously good" at risk management

A few years back, we asked the CEO of a major bank, “what’s the single most important thing for Stripe?” His answer was, “being conspicuously good at risk management.”

This goes beyond being good, or even excellent at risk management. We must be so good at it that we’re known for being good at it.

There’s typically a tradeoff between user experience and risk. Being good at risk management doesn’t simply mean taking less risk. It means being able to provide a uniquely good user experience for a given risk appetite. We can fundamentally distinguish Stripe, and improve the state of the art of global financial services, by becoming world class at managing risks for ourselves, and for our users. This includes defining our risk appetite, measuring risk, and efficiently mitigating it. 

And this is only becoming more important:

- Our growth makes Stripe an increasingly attractive target for increasingly sophisticated fraudsters.
- AI will make many attacks significantly cheaper.
- Regulations (KYC/AML) are becoming more complex.
- Companies want to serve customers across more countries, each with unique risk vectors.
- Stripe is becoming systemically large and thus more consequential to partners and more visible to regulators.
- Our expansion into non-payment money management capabilities (and stablecoins) introduces new risk vectors.

Managing risk is core to most of our product experiences. How effective we are at this is core to the quality and power of the product experiences we can provide to users. It is and will only become more to Stripe's enormous strategic benefit to be known for rigor and efficacy in risk management.

There's also tremendous commercial upside in being conspicuously good at risk management. Managing risk demands expertise in prediction, and predictions in finance are immensely valuable. With Radar, we've got a foothold in building products that mitigate risk for our users, but we believe we are at the beginning of this journey. Risk products and risk-as-a-service represent a multi-billion dollar commercial opportunity for Stripe in the years ahead; we are excited to invest here.

Finally, the immense opportunity we see in globalizing financial services depends on us discovering and mitigating new vectors for financial, compliance, and regulatory risk. The stablecoin ecosystem is young and emerging, and we can play an enormous role in managing risk and defining risk frameworks for crypto based financial services.

### So what?

- We'll build risk systems that are so good that (a) we can sell them, and (b) we can share them transparently and proudly with partners and regulators.

### What's coming in 2026?

- Risk will be re-architected into a multi-product platform, offering APIs, re-usable user experiences and transferable common policies that product teams can build on top of. *Fixed point: Stripe beyond payments*
- Risk will offer "risk and compliance as a service" (RaaS) suite, consisting of a series of core primitives, intelligence signals, "modules" for specific types of risk, and full stack solutions that enable us to increasingly serve a wide variety of users and use cases. *Fixed point: Stripe beyond payments*
- Autonomous risk AI Agent (ARIA) serves merchant fraud and credit risk assessments, reducing losses, and improving the complex risk decisioning experience. *Fixed point: Intelligence layer*

## Principle 6: Make our products instantly self-servable

The vast majority of financial services companies don’t enable instant, self-serve access to their products. On the face of it, this is puzzling; instant, self-serve access means lower friction to adoption, which means more users and more growth. And enabling instant self-service for platforms has a compounding benefit; these platforms will see more users and more growth. So why do financial services companies restrict their market opportunities so much?

When you scrutinize the risks posed by self-serve experiences, this decision makes sense: enabling self-serve financial services is hard. It requires a combination of fraud detection, identity verifications, complex and synchronous supportability checks, partner engagement, and regulatory expertise that very few companies possess. This is all the more reason we must be conspicuously good at risk management (Principle 5)!

We should lean into this challenge. When products are immediately self-servable, users are empowered to experiment. We aim to “arm upstarts,” and how better to do this than to make powerful products immediately available at their fingertips?

Over the past few years, we’ve regressed on this front. Today, more products — both in number and in proportion — linger gated in our Docs than five years ago. Some of these linger for good reasons; for example, for certain high-risk categories, our partners require us to do stepped up risk checks before allowing users to activate. But more often than not, we are simply not doing the work we need to do to enable an instant, self-service experience. 

It may be true that a certain product can pose risk to users, but this is not reason enough to disable instant self-service. We can build rigorous, in-product notifications, warnings, and protections to help guide users to or away from taking certain actions.

Quite commonly, our products are instantly self-servable in our largest markets, but gated in others. We should have a very high bar for geographic limitations to self-service, particularly now that stablecoins provide us with a platform to build financial services with a globally consistent architecture (Principle 10).

Unless it is clearly forbidden by partners or by regulation, users should be able to adopt your product instantly and independently. And even when those prohibitions exist, think about what it would take to get partners or regulators comfortable with an instant, self-serve experience.

### So what?

- We will make instant, self-serve access the default expectation for our products, holding a high bar against long standing gates and geographic limitations.
- We look for in-product solutions that manage risk as alternatives to turning off self-service.

### What's coming in 2026?

- Agentic onboarding improvements such as copying or syncing data from a sandbox to a livemode environment *Fixed point: Sandboxes*

## Principle 7: Center AI

AI is changing what companies are building, how they are building, and how commerce happens. With that, it’s transforming our users’ needs and how they use Stripe. In parallel, AI is also expanding the solutions we can build on top of our data. It’s imperative we enable the deployment of AI across the economy by building the economic infrastructure for AI.

On momentum, we won’t do enough — not out of any disbelief, but simply because it’s hard for any organization to respond with sufficient vigor to the possibilities of a major new paradigm. So, we’ll have to bring very intentional intensity.

At least four things seem clear at this point:

First, a growing share of global GDP will come out of the current wave of AI startups. So we should build quickly and arm-in-arm with that wave. These AI companies are unlike anything we’ve ever seen before — not just for their pace of growth and global reach, but also for their cost structures, fraud vectors, and rapid iteration across pricing models. Being the skeletal system for them will require continued fast iteration on our own offerings, from usage-based billing models to managing first-party abuse.  

Second, how our users integrate Stripe will change. Writing code is a “hero” application of AI. Google reports that AI-assisted code completion now contributes to roughly 50% of all code characters written by developers. Anecdotally, AI is central to the design and development process of most early stage software companies coming out of Y Combinator. Developer experience has been a competitive edge for Stripe since launch in 2011. With AI writing much or even the majority of code, we must adapt to a world where the primary developer is AI.

This creates new risks. For one, it’s possible that developer experience in the future will matter less in this world, because models will be roughly indifferent when it comes to one API versus another. As of September 2025, it seems that this may be the case for simple applications. But even in a future where models write code as well or better than humans, guiding models to and through complex integrations across multiple products — a high-impact and high-risk process involving iteration and evolution as businesses grow and change — will be no small task, and we anticipate that some companies will do this far better than others. That is, AI developer experience will not be commodified or flattened, and we aspire to set the bar in the industry for AI developer experience. And we’re on the path. For example, we were the first to launch an agent toolkit (and soon after MCP server), and with more usage than others. Stripe Docs quickly shipped powerful features like Markdown versions of Docs for LLMs, conversational docs, and AI actions that together are inspiring the industry. And claimable sandboxes now make Stripe native inside AI dev tools like Replit and Vercel — with 1800 sandboxes created in the first few days after launch, it’s clear we’re on to something. 

This also creates extraordinary new opportunities. As noted in Principle 2, “users generally do not have a complete model of what Stripe can do for them, and users integrate Stripe’s products serially and in path-dependent ways.” AI should pave the path for “atomic” Stripe integrations. Unlike oversubscribed and impatient human developers, models can write code (roughly) arbitrarily quickly. With a deep understanding of a startup’s business, a model can, in seconds, integrate all relevant Stripe products. Some may be less important or less relevant to start — maybe they’re toggled on and off via a YAML file — but all the product discovery and integration work would be done. In this way, AI can dramatically expand the notion of “integrating Stripe.” (This increases the value and power of logical domain modeling in Principle 1.)

Third, we'll want to invest more in leveraging our vast and unique corpus of data to provide more powerful AI-driven products to more users. Specifically, we'll increasingly make Stripe intelligence open, extensible, and actionable — exposing it through APIs, expanding it with foundation models, and enabling it to act through AI agents. Stripe has always integrated machine learning into our products — products like Radar and teams like Risk have been using ML to deliver value to our users for years, but most of our production models today are relatively small with handcrafted features, and the value often lives locked up inside prescriptive products (smart retries only if on Billing, payment method ranking only if on Checkout, etc). If there's any lesson in AI over the past decade it's that more data, more computational power, and less structure lead to better performance. We see an opportunity to build fewer, bigger models as an intelligence foundation leveraging much more of our data, including the subtle and complex interrelationships — like sequence modeling on payments embeddings and a global customer graph. AI-driven products on top of that foundation will provide better predictions, and when paired with LLMs, their predictions will be explainable and increasingly actionable through agents.

Fourth, the commercial infrastructure our users need will change. At this point, it's clear that AI will create new purchasing modalities. In the reasonably near future, customers probably won't interact directly with many online checkout forms. Instead, they'll ask their computer to do the work for them. "Buy this: [url]". "Book this flight." We are partnering with AI platforms like OpenAI, Perplexity, Microsoft, Anthropics, and others to pioneer new agentic commerce experiences like this. At the same time, we're working with trusted merchants like Etsy, URBN, Tapestry (Kate Spade + Coach), SquareSpace, and Wix to help define what a great two-sided marketplace looks like. Merchants must be prepared for changes in commerce modalities, and with the Agentic Commerce Protocol and Shared Payment Tokens, we are helping them prepare for the era of agent-mediated commerce.

Generally, as AI suffuses the global economy, we must keep a keen eye out for other changes, opportunities, and risks. For example, it seems likely that:

- More businesses, especially more software businesses, will be founded. (Indeed, Atlas trends suggest this).
- New fraud vectors will emerge — because compute is worth stealing, because agentic commerce is a new paradigm, and because fraudsters will themselves use AI / agents in malicious ways.
- Businesses, including Stripe, will spend less (proportionally) on opex and likely more on marketing and discovery, which itself will change in the context of agentic.
- With agents taking care of a growing number of workflows, businesses will demand higher quality and lower latency operational data to feed those agents.

Because of the pace at which AI is transforming our users' needs and how they use Stripe, we must center AI in our approach to building Stripe.

### So what?

- We deliberately and intentionally reorient around AI as a core economic paradigm for which we must build the economic infrastructure.
- We invest sufficiently in both the underlying data and the large, horizontal models that will feed our own AI and AI / agents that our users build directly.

### What's coming in 2026?

- Launching new economic infrastructure for AI companies ranging from first-party abuse signals to novel monetization constructs like token billing. *Catalyst: AI*
- AI developer tools can spin up a sandbox and build a full "golden path" integration before the user has signed up for Stripe, with a smooth path to going live. *Fixed point: Sandboxes; Catalyst: AI*
- Support AI integrator though optimized MCP & Docs, real-time debugging data, and security features to minimize risks. *Catalyst: AI*
- Intelligence API suite offers access to several payment and customers AI scores, recommendations, and explainability provided by Stripe, regardless of payment provider. *Fixed point: Intelligence layer*
- AI agents can offer an embedded checkout experience with Delegated Checkout, and merchants on and off Stripe can access these AI surfaces through our agentic commerce solution *Catalyst: AI*
- User can rely on AI in the dashboard to quickly find information, perform actions and generate reports *Fixed point: Dashboard*

## Principle 8: Catalyze new commercial models with tastemakers

Throughout Stripe's history — and indeed continuing today — we've prioritized building products to support new commercial models:

- Stripe's original innovation was a self-serve payments API to help engineers monetize more quickly;
- We built Connect for Shopify and Lyft, giving rise to our SaaS Platforms and Marketplaces solutions respectively. SaaS Platforms now account for 36% of Net Revenue on Stripe, while Marketplaces account for 16%;
- We built Billing for the massive rise of SaaS companies with recurring revenue business models;
- We built Issuing and Treasury (now V2 FAs) for financial technology startups during the Fintech boom of the early 2020s;
- We're building Stablecoin Orchestration and Crypto Wallets for entrepreneurs working on global-first money services businesses on top of stablecoins;
- We're building Usage Based Billing for the new wave of AI companies with expensive inference costs;
- We're building new abstractions to help agentic commerce orchestrators (e.g., OpenAI) complete purchases from third party sellers.

Across all of these, our design center is tastemakers, innovative (and most often but not always technical) entrepreneurs who are inventing new commercial models on the Internet. Empirically, tastemakers tend to be startups, but we find them at larger companies as well. For example, URBN has been a powerful inspiration for our retail strategy. They worked hand-in-hand with us to shape our approach to POS fleet management and have been great thought partners on how to help retailers manage return abuse.

Beyond commercialization and monetization, in some cases, we provide the foundational technology that enables new businesses to exist. With stablecoins, for example, Stripe and Bridge are building rails that global financial services companies like DolarApp depend on for their core products. By analogy, our stablecoin orchestration APIs for global financial services companies are like foundation models for applied AI companies. The scale of this opportunity to grow the GDP of the Internet is staggering, and it is the reason why crypto and stablecoins are now fundamental to Stripe.

We form our own views about the future — what opportunities, risks, and changes new technologies and market conditions will bring about. But the most reliable mechanism we have to understand and prepare for the future is to get very close to the entrepreneurs bringing it about and to work deeply with them in a rapid iteration cycle. They are our engine and our true north.

### So what?

- We work iteratively and agilely alongside the tastemakers to define what's possible and co-create innovative solutions that drive new commercial models.

### What's coming in 2026?

- Allowing eCommerce businesses to model their product catalog on Stripe and build a highly performant version of Checkout for eCommerce. *Fixed point: Complete product catalog*
- Continue to scale merchant adoption and usage for crypto payment with global-first digital goods companies & prove out net new use case for B2B invoicing. *Catalyst: Money Management*

## Principle 9: Obsess over quality at every layer of the stack

Product quality is woven deeply into our brand, our internal identity, and our processes. We aspire to be recognized as the highest-quality product wherever we build. In some areas, we unquestionably fall short of this bar today; in others, we hear from users that we comfortably meet it. In no areas are we complacent, instead relentlessly hillclimbing based on continuous feedback from our users (PSAT, CSAT, Deal Loss Review, insights from Customer Success and user interviews, etc.).

We define product quality as “power,” “craft,” and “beauty”—roughly, how well our products work, how usable they are, and how they stand out aesthetically.

And we think about product quality expansively. It is not “just” pixels and pathways in the Dashboard (though we are in fact elevating this dimension of product quality), but abstraction design, the freshness and accuracy of data, the performance of our AI models, the words on our Docs pages, low latency, industry leading reliability, thorough and exacting security protections, and every other dimension that directly affects how users experience what we build for them.

Over the past few years, maintaining our product quality bar has become more challenging for a few reasons. First, our product suite has become more expansive. With this, we’ve created new seams and interoperability challenges between our products. Second, with this expansiveness, there’s more diversity in the user roles (not just developers but also accountants, support agents, business analysts, etc.) that are using Stripe every day. Third, our users are getting larger with more exacting needs. Serving larger users well is hard, and in turn, we risk losing focus on serving Startups well! Our priority user segments are Startups, Enterprises, and SaaS Platforms, and our products must serve all three of these segments impeccably.

But our commitment to quality goes well beyond what you'd conventionally considered "product." It extends to the emails we write, the materials we create for Enterprise Briefing Center meetings, our RFP submissions, the slides and visuals we create for Stripe Sessions and Stripe Tour, the words we say on stage at these conferences, the timeliness and efficacy of our support experiences, and the clarity of our pricing. Our commitment to quality is not bounded. Quality at Stripe is a general meticulousness that we bring to every touchpoint we have with users, partners, regulators, vendors, and all other stakeholders we interface with as we build Stripe together.

This extends to internal stakeholders, that is, each other. Perhaps the most critical internal area is technical quality: the power, craft, and beauty of the platforms we engineer for internal consumption. In 2025, we made major strides in ML infrastructure, with workstreams like model deployment CI/CD enabling continuous model deployments without human intervention. We more than doubled ML developer CSAT (from 38 to 80). We also shipped out-of-the-box automations and reliability improvements to our service frameworks which are helping teams ship faster and have prevented thousands of potential customer-impacting incidents this year. Looking forward to 2026, we're revamping our internal data platforms to help engineers create and manage data more efficiently and effectively. And these three areas illustrate a general point: elevating technical quality internally also elevates user experience.

Inertia would lead to a decrease in quality, but we are not going to accept this. While we want our product suite and indeed our company to exhibit the power and expansiveness of Microsoft, we also want Stripe to have the coherence and grace of an iPhone. In 2026, we want quality to be sewn into Stripe's culture and practices more deeply than it was in 2016.

### So what?

- We apply a high quality bar expansively — across our product surfaces, user interactions, and technology stack.

### What's coming in 2026?

- Build a "streaming dashboard" where data is real-time, consistent across surfaces, explainable, and explorable in the Dashboard, Sigma, SDP, and Hubble. *Fixed point: Data*
- Powerful yet flexible abstractions *Fixed point: Accounts Interfaces; Complete product catalog*
- Transform the core surfaces (Customers, Transactions, Balances, Product Catalog) into powerful and performant experiences for all business models. Elevate Checkout to the primary navigation as our first "studio," coupling product configuration and performance optimization. *Fixed point: Dashboard*

## Principle 10: Make our products globally available

It’s one of our long-term goals to accelerate the pace of globalization. The Internet has broadly fulfilled its promise of unifying the world socially and informationally: services like Google, Twitter, Facebook, and Wikipedia are available in all but a handful of countries. Commercially, however, much of the Internet’s globalizing opportunity is still ahead. Even for sophisticated, U.S. based tech companies — whether e-commerce, SaaS, marketplaces, or otherwise — the idea of selling to consumers in, e.g., Malaysia is both daunting and exotic. Hurdles like localizing payment methods, managing intercontinental treasury flows, adapting products and billing methods to local regulations, and switching languages at checkout stifle global trade on the Internet.

To help the Internet unify the world economically, we are committed to making our products globally available. 

It is hard to globalize financial services. It requires us to strike bespoke and geographically circumscribed partnerships, acquire and operationalize many licenses, form strong relationships with regulators all over the world, build products — for example, certain LPMs — that are relevant only to relatively small subset of our users, and tackle regional risk vectors — for example, unique fraud and regulatory risks posed by China cross-border users, or spiky fraud losses on SEPA payments in Europe. And all of this on top of the basics of geographic expansion, the likes of language, pricing, onboarding, and cultural localization.

To date, we’ve made good progress in Payments and Revenue and Finance Automation. Stripe has local acquiring in 51 countries, representing 69.2% of global GDP. Additionally, with 19 net new payment methods shipped in 2025, we have 79 payment methods on Stripe. However, we have made slow progress in Southeast Asia and India. We need to pick up the pace.

Global coverage in our Money Management products is far more narrow. These products are more regulated than Payments and RFA, which makes them particularly challenging to globalize. Nonetheless, we have an ambitious and exciting roadmap to bring Financial Accounts to many additional countries and currencies over the next 18 months. And by embracing an open ecosystem (Principle 4), we are making steady progress with Capital, which expanded to the UK and is on track to launch in France, Germany and Australia in 2025, and will continue on to 6+ additional countries in 2026 (CA, JP, NZ, and additional EU countries).

We will continue the relentless march to make our products globally available, but much of the world will be poorly served by fiat financial services for the indefinite future. In many countries, local banking systems and governments simply do not support high quality financial services. In these places, we believe crypto and stablecoins can help.

We strongly inflected our investment in crypto and stablecoins in 2025, and we did so because of the incumbent challenges and inefficiencies inherent to building programmable financial services with a global footprint. Stablecoins are a new financial platform that enables developers — and Stripe — to build payments, money movement, and money storage products with a global-first paradigm, higher quality, and (over time, at least), lower cost.

We believe that crypto rails will be central to global money movement and storage over the decades ahead, and that stablecoins will be the most important assets riding these rails. If Bridge's meteoric revenue growth emphasizes one thing, it's that the problems stablecoin orchestration is solving for users are otherwise intractable. DolarApp can't provide USD access in Mexico without stablecoins. The same goes for Ramp issuing cards globally, and Remitly providing fast and reliable remittances.

### So what?

- As we shape our products, we think about and plan for them to rapidly become generally available in all countries in which Stripe operates, and about how we can make them work consistently across borders.
- Using products in a new country should be a simple config change for our users, not a new development project.

### What's coming in 2026?

- Complete marketing GA for direct FAs in the US + UK; and announce expansion to 19 additional countries throughout Eurozone (GA timelines TBD); with CA + AU coming EOY; Private preview compliant solution for multi-processor marketplaces to send money to recipients in >100 markets and provision USDC-backed wallets in under 5 mins; announce 3 ref customers (Link consumer wallet still tbd if in scope). *Fixed point: Money movement abstractions*
- Make FA self-serve in > 100 countries for direct users and platforms; Build the world's most performant GPTN with interoperability across fiat & crypto, virtualized currencies & on &off ramps in 100+ countries. *Catalyst: Money Management*
- Enable users to sign up for Stripe's software services with a minimum, basic account. *Fixed point: Stripe beyond payments*

## The 10 Principles in Brief

| Principle | From | To (By 2028) |
|-----------|------|--------------|
| **[1] Invert our value proposition and optimize for complete integrations** | Users integrate with us as a point-wise solution (primarily PSP) in their stack, and provide only bare minimum information about their business. | Users integrate with us holistically as their commercial infrastructure, giving us a full picture of their business; they can enter via any vertical (not just payments) and expand to other solutions seamlessly. |
| **[2] Make our products composable, extensible, and programmable** | One-size-fits-all "products" that we deliver to our users, with only some ways to customize and grow the experience. | Our products are designed and built from the ground up to allow seamless composition, modification, and extension using custom data, scripts, workflows, and third-party applications. |
| **[3] Elevate our canonical identity networks** | Disparate representations of businesses that aren't addressable in the GPTN or deeply integrated into our products. | Networks of canonical identities that our users can discover, interact, and transact with. These networks are deeply integrated into our product offerings. |
| **[4] Empower and embrace an open ecosystem** | Only a small set of products are interoperable with partners / 3rd party services. | All Stripe products gracefully interoperate with partners and 3rd party services, via apps, extensions, and reverse APIs. |
| **[5] Be "conspicuously good" at risk management** | Risk is "owned" by one team, and risk is synonymous with payments risk | All products are cognizant of risk, and have a risk strategy from the outset. |
| **[6] Make our products instantly self-servable** | Onboarding process could be high friction where products/features are gated by manual / slow process. | All products & features are made eagerly available to users via instant self-serve. |
| **[7] Center AI** | AI techniques and paradigms are limited to small pockets of Stripe | AI is infused into many more user-facing product surfaces in intuitive forms. AI is making step-change improvements in our existing product offerings, and internal product development, utilizing Stripe's data and scale to enhance user experiences. Stripe sets the standard for how businesses transact within these new paradigms. |
| **[8] Catalyze new commercial models for tastemakers** | Primarily focus on serving the existing business models and existing users | Relentlessly focus on building and serving tastemakers' and, in particular, AI businesses' business and interaction model transformations that can't be supported by our products today. |
| **[9] Obsess over quality at every layer of the stack** | Product quality as a nice-to-have that is maintained sporadically when user bugs come in. | Raise and maintain quality standards from core product functionalities, interoperability to last mile usability, hygiene, and support. |
| **[10] Make our products globally available** | US-first or single-region products, and products living as US-only (or single-region) for extended periods of time. | Global strategy contemplated from first principles of product design and the future roadmap, striving for equivalent user experiences across geos over time. |




